---
title: "Hybrid mmWave / Free Space Optical Design with the use of NOMA techniques for 5G Backhaul Networks (in Greek)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-07-10-paper-title-number-2
date: 2019-07-10
venue: 'Electrical and Computer Engineering Diploma Thesis, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki'
paperurl: 'https://ikee.lib.auth.gr/record/305690'
---
<div style="text-align: justify">This diploma thesis investigates transmission schemes for use in hybrid communication systems for the backhauling of the 5G networks. These hybrid systems use the Free Space Optics (FSO) technology and the Millimeter Wave (mmWave) technology simultaneously, along with Non Orthogonal Multiple Access (NOMA) techniques. In the literature, many communication systems that use Free Space Optics have already been proposed, due to the fact that the bandwidth used for optical channels is unlicensed and as a result, the possibility of using a larger bandwidth is offered. Furthermore, Free Space Optical communications are less prone to the degradation of the communication quality caused by rain or water particles in the atmosphere compared to the mmWave technology. In mmWave systems rain causes a severe degradation of the communication quality. However, these systems perform relatively well in cases of fog or snow, unlike FSO systems, which usually fail to deliver information when such weather conditions occur. Therefore, by using both communication technologies simultaneously it is possible to achieve higher rates and at the same time diminish the bit error rate (BER). Because of the complementary behaviour of the FSO and mmWave systems in different weather conditions, many hybrid models that use both technologies have been discussed in the literature. However, the possibility of creating a communication network that will be based on such a model and use Non Orthogonal Multiple Access (NOMA) techniques at the same time has not yet been investigated. The traditional communication systems use Orthogonal Multiple Access (OMA) techniques, which have a great disadvantage due to the fact that they distribute the system resources unequally and the fact that it is difficult for them to serve a large number of users simultaneously. On the contrary, Non Orthogonal Multiple Access techniques lead to using the available spectrum more efficiently by providing the opportunity to break the orthogonality, in other words to allow the simultaneous use of the same spectral content by more than one user. In this way, the spectral efficiency of the system increases. Moreover, if the network has been designed in such a way as to ensure the fairness between users, i.e. the possibility of assigning different power levels to each user according to his channel condition, then we can create a robust system that will be capable of performing adequately in most circumstances.</div>

[Download paper here](https://ikee.lib.auth.gr/record/305690)
